
  Kalam, is an Indian scientist and administrator who served as the 11th President of India.

  Kalam was born and raised in Rameswaram, TamilNadu, studied physics at the St. Joseph's College, Tiruchirappalli, and aerospace engineering at the Madras Institute of Technology (MIT), Chennai.

  Before his term as President, he worked as an aerospace engineer with Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO).
 
  Kalam is popularly known as the Missile Man of India for his work on the development of ballistic missile and launch vehicle technology.
 
  He played a pivotal organizational, technical and political role in India's Pokhran-II nuclear tests in 1998, the first since the original nuclear test by India in 1974. 
 
  Some scientific experts have however called Kalam a man with no authority over nuclear physics but who just carried on the works of Homi J. Bhabha and Vikram Sarabhai.
 
  Kalam was elected the President of India in 2002, defeating Lakshmi Sahgal and was supported by both the Indian National Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party, the major political parties of India. 
 
  He is currently a visiting professor at Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad and Indian Institute of Management Indore, Chancellor of the Indian Institute of Space Science and Technology Thiruvananthapuram, a professor of Aerospace Engineering at Anna University (Chennai), JSS University (Mysore) and an adjunct/visiting faculty at many other academic and research institutions across India.
 
 Future India: 2020 
 
  In his book India 2020, Kalam strongly advocates an action plan to develop India into a knowledge superpower and a developed nation by the year 2020.
 
  He regards his work on India's nuclear weapons program as a way to assert India's place as a future superpower.
  
  It was reported that, there was a considerable demand in South Korea for translated versions of books authored by him.
  
  Kalam continues to take an active interest in other developments in the field of science and technology. 
  
  He has proposed a research program for developing bio-implants. 
  
  He is a supporter of Open Source over proprietary solutions and believes that the use of free software on a large scale will bring the benefits of information technology to more people.
 
 